Add Pulse/Inngest router code example (#6462)
prisma/prisma-examples: pulse/inngest-router/README.md

# Prisma Pulse-Inngest Router

> This package enables event-driven support for your existing Inngest workflows, using Prisma Pulse. Trigger workflows instantly whenever a database table changes, so you can create timely workflows that run instantly -- not only batch workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package enables event-driven support for your existing Inngest workflows, using Prisma Pulse. Trigger workflows whenever a database table changes, so you can create timely workflows that run instantly -- not only batch workflows.
```

## Pre-requisites

- An existing project with [Inngest](https://www.inngest.com/docs) and [Prisma Client](https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started) configured
- A **Pulse API key** which you can get by enabling Pulse in a project in your
  [Prisma Data Platform](https://pris.ly/pdp) account (learn more in the
  [docs](https://www.prisma.io/docs/platform/concepts/environments#api-keys))
- An existing [Inngest](https://www.inngest.com) account and
  [Event Key](https://www.inngest.com/docs/events/creating-an-event-key?ref=environment-variables)

## Get started

### Fork or clone this repo

```bash
npx try-prisma@latest --template pulse/inngest-router
```

You should operate with your own version of this service in a GitHub repository that you own. This allows you to track changes, and deploy to cloud platforms easily.

### Set up your API keys

Make a copy of the `.env.example` file, rename it to `.env`, and update it with your own keys and database connection string:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

### Add your Prisma schema

> Add your existing Prisma schema file to the `/prisma` directory, overwriting the existing example schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add an existing Prisma schema file to the `/prisma` directory, overwriting the existing example schema.
```

> If you don't already have a project using Inngest and Prisma Client, you may choose to try another [Prisma example](https://github.com/prisma/prisma-examples) instead.

Reviewer: Up to you, but just to understand: 

Should we maybe rephrase this?
```suggestion
If you don't already have a project using Inngest and Prisma Client, you can choose another [Prisma example](https://github.com/prisma/prisma-examples) to start with instead.
```

Reviewer: Actually, on second thought. Maybe we phrase this a different way since this repo has a sample `prisma.schema`
```suggestion
If you don't already have a project using Inngest and Prisma Client, you can use the sample Prisma Schema provided in this repo. Run `npx prisma db push` to push this schema to a test database of your choosing. [Check out the db push docs for more info](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/reference/prisma-cli-reference#db-push).

You can also try one of our other [Prisma examples](https://github.com/prisma/prisma-examples) as a starting point instead.
```

### Define the Prisma models to subscribe to

> Add all Prisma models that you wish to stream events from to the array. The service will ignore any models that don't exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add all Prisma models you wish to stream events from into the array. The service will ignore any models that don't exist.
```

Note that the naming convention should follow the standard naming convention for Prisma ORM, eg. `MyModel` becomes `myModel`.

```typescript
// Here configure each prisma model to stream changes from
const PRISMA_MODELS = ['notification', 'user'];
```

### Test locally before saving your changes

Run the service locally:
1. `npx prisma generate`
1. `npm run build`
1. `npm run start`

> **Hint:** you can trigger changes in your database by running
> `npx prisma studio` and modifying some data or adding a new row.

Reviewer: Super unnecessary but you can use Github's admonition syntax here.
```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> you can trigger changes in your database by running `npx prisma studio` and modifying some data or adding a new row.
```

### Commit your changes

```
git add .
git commit -m "Configure my pulse-inngest-router service"
git push
```

## Deploy

### To Railway

1. Create an account and project on [Railway](https://railway.app/new)
1. Create a new service by clicking the **Create** button in the top right of
your dashboard
1. Choose to deploy from a **GitHub Repo**
1. Authorize your GitHub account, and choose the GitHub repository you used in
previous steps
1. Add the respective environment variables:

>     1. DATABASE_URL
>     1. PULSE_API_KEY
>     1. INNGEST_EVENT_KEY

Reviewer: Would change these to bullets instead of numbers (they don't have an inherent order)
```suggestion
   * DATABASE_URL
   * PULSE_API_KEY
   * INNGEST_EVENT_KEY
```

# Prisma Pulse-Inngest Router

> This package enables event-driven support for your existing Inngest workflows,

Reviewer: for `.md` files we generally don't line break like this. I'm assuming this is a Prettier thing? Would it be possible to edit the Prettier configuration to ignore `.md` files?

Author: No worries, fixed. It's an old habit of breaking lines at 80 characters (totally manually 😅)

using Prisma Pulse. Trigger workflows instantly whenever a database table
changes, so you can create timely workflows that run instantly -- not only
batch workflows.

## Pre-requisites

- A **Pulse API key** which you can get by enabling Pulse in a project in your
  [Prisma Data Platform](https://pris.ly/pdp) account (learn more in the
  [docs](https://www.prisma.io/docs/platform/concepts/environments#api-keys))
- An existing [Inngest](https://www.inngest.com) account and
  [Event Key](https://www.inngest.com/docs/events/creating-an-event-key?ref=environment-variables)

## Get started

> ### Fork or clone this repo

Reviewer: I think we should add instructions here on how to clone.

You should operate with your own version of this service in a GitHub repository
that you own. This allows you to track changes, and deploy to cloud platforms
easily.

### Set up your API keys

> Make a copy of the `.env.sample` file and update it with your own keys and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make a copy of the `.env.example` file and update it with your own keys and
```

> Make a copy of the `.env.example` file and update it with your own keys and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make a copy of the `.env.example` file, rename it to `.env`, and update it with your own keys and
```

database connection string:

```bash

> cp .env.sample .env

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cp .env.example .env
```

```

### Add your Prisma schema

> Add your existing Prisma schema file to the `/prisma` directory, overwriting

Reviewer: This is a bit confusing to me. What if I don't have a Prisma Schema and I'm just trying things out?

Author: That's a very fair point. The original intent of this example was to be a deployable package for existing projects (just for context) which may explain a couple of the things.

But I think with some better explaining it should be OK

Add all Prisma models that you wish to stream events from to the array. The
service will ignore any models that don't exist.

Note that the naming convention should follow the standard naming convention for
Prisma ORM, eg. `MyModel` becomes `myModel`.

```typescript
// Here configure each prisma model to stream changes from
const PRISMA_MODELS = ['notification', 'user'];
```

### Test locally before saving your changes

Run the service locally:
1. `npx prisma generate`
1. `npm run build`
1. `npm run start`

**Hint:** you can trigger changes in your database by running
`npx prisma studio` and modifying some data or adding a new row.

### Commit your changes

```
git add .
git commit -m "Configure my pulse-inngest-router service"
git push
```

## Deploy

### To Railway

1. Create an account and project on [Railway](https://railway.app/new)
1. Create a new service by clicking the **Create** button in the top right of
your dashboard
1. Choose to deploy from a **GitHub Repo**
1. Authorize your GitHub account, and choose the GitHub repository you used in
previous steps
1. Add the respective environment variables:
    1. DATABASE_URL
    1. PULSE_API_KEY
    1. INNGEST_EVENT_KEY

> ### Run manually with Docker

Reviewer: see above comments re: docker

1. Build the Docker image: `docker build -t pulse-inngest-router .`
1. Run the service, substituting the variables with your own values:
```
docker run \
  -e DATABASE_URL="" \
  -e PULSE_API_KEY="" \
  -e INNGEST_EVENT_KEY="" \
  pulse-inngest-router
```

## Create Inngest functions

> When database changes occur, there will automatically be events submitted to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When database changes occur, there will be events automatically submitted to 
```

your Inngest project. The event names will be formatted like this: `db/<action>.<model>`

eg. If your model is `notification`, and a new row is added, the event submitted
to Inngest will be `db/create.notification`

The possible actions are `create`, `update`, and `delete`.

To handle these events, create an Inngest function with the appropriate name.
See the below example, and the [Inngest docs](https://www.inngest.com/docs/learn/inngest-functions) for more detail:

```typescript
export default inngest.createFunction(
  { id: "handle-new-notification" },
  { event: "db/create.notification" },
  async ({ event, step }) => {
    const pulseChange = event.data;

    // Your logic here
  };
);
```

> Note that the full [Pulse Change Event](https://www.prisma.io/docs/pulse/database-events) is available in `event.data`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the full [Pulse Change Event](https://www.prisma.io/docs/pulse/database-events) is available in `event.data`.
```

## Helpful documentation
1. [Get started with Prisma ORM](https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started)
1. [Get started with Prisma Pulse](https://www.prisma.io/docs/pulse)

## Get help

> [Join our Discord community](https://discord.gg/KQyTW2H5ca) to get help with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Join our Discord community](https://pris.ly/discord) to get help with
```
